# Saving and Loading a Trained Model

In this lab you will
1. Attach a UI instance to a model
2. Save the model
3. Load the saved model

## Goals of the Lab

* Label Generation with ParentPathLabelGenerator
* Attaching a UIServer
* Saving a Trained model
* Loading a Trained model


# Step 1

* Open up IntelliJ
Open up IntelliJ and navigate to the Labs folder

# Step 2

* Open the MnistImageSave class

This example uses the classic Machine Learning challenge of recognizing handwritten digits. 


# Step 3

* Review the Input

The data is in the following directories resources/mnist_png/testing, resources/mnist_png/training.

Open one of the directories and note that it contains subdirectories 0-9 each containing24*24 pixel gray scale images of digits. 



# STEP 4

* Attach a UI instance to the Neural Network. 

See the SumplestNetwork for an example. 

# Step 5

* Save the Model

The Javadoc for ModelSerializer is here https://deeplearning4j.org/doc/org/deeplearning4j/util/ModelSerializer.html

You want to use ModelSerializer.writeModel with the constructor that takes(modelname,location_to_save, boolean saveUpdater)

The modelname will be the name of the model in this example. 

The location to save is already defined. 
File locationToSave = new File("trained_mnist_model.zip");

SaveUpdater is used when you want to train the model further or simply use it for inference. 

***some models train for days or weeks, with any longrunning process it is important to save progress in case of disaster. Running ModelSerializer.writeModel allows you to save the model, perhaps every few hours. ***

# Step 6

Run the code



# Step 7

Load the Trained model. 

Create a class named MnistImageLoad

add a Logger 

```
    private static Logger log = LoggerFactory.getLogger(MnistImageLoad.class);
```

Add a Main method

```
public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {

}
```


Set three Int objects height, width, channels. 

Set values to 28,28 and 1. 

Move the saved model to the resources folder so it is in the classpath. 

Create two file objects one for the trained_mnist_model.zip file and one for the image that will be classified by the model, number.png. 


```
File modelSave =  new ClassPathResource("trained_mnist_model.zip").getFile();
```

```
File imageToTest = new ClassPathResource("number.png").getFile();
```


Create a MultiLayerNetwork model using ModelSerializer.restoreMultiLaerNetwork([File Object for the model]);


To read a single image to pass into the saved network for evaluation use the NativeImageLoader Class. 


```
NativeImageLoader loader = new NativeImageLoader(height, width, channels);
```		

Get the image into an INDarray

```        
INDArray image = loader.asMatrix(imageToTest);
```

For expected results the image must be processed in the same way as the images that the network trained on were processed.

Create a DataNormalization scaler to scale pixel values to values between 0 and 1. 

```        
DataNormalization scaler = new ImagePreProcessingScaler(0,1);
```        

Transform the image with the transform method of the DataNormalization scaler. 



```
scaler.transform(image);
```



Pass the transformed image matrix to neural Net.

```
INDArray output = model.output(image);
```
        
Print the output to the console. 		

```
log.info(output.toString());
```

Run your code to verify. 
